	Education for me has been a sequence of escalating challenges. Now I want to take it to the next level. I see graduate school as the place I can complete the structure I have been slowly building since I first checked out a book on math at my local library because I had run out of books at my elementary school.
	
	I wasn't able to satisfy my passion for math and science until I went to Louisiana School for Math, Science, and the Arts, a state-run high school for the best students in Louisiana. This was my first taste of a college level education. In my first year I took trigonometry through multivariable calculus, soaring through math like a kid on his first bike. 
 
	At LSU I was able to start with senior level math classes. Early on I formed strong bonds with my professors. The courses did get harder, but what never changed was my enthusiasm to learn more. This carried over into one of my first paying jobs as a math tutor for the department, leading me to more work with professors. Soon afterwards I took a couple of courses with Dr. Stephen Shipman, specifically one of his independent research courses in electromagnetism, and began to work with him on his photonic crystal research. What I brought with me was my knowledge of programming in C++ and other languages, plus many other uncommon techniques, such as abstract data types, design patterns, kernels and operating system knowledge. I began to learn the mechanics of electromagnetic scattering on crystals. In turn I was able to share with Shipman helpful programming practices, such as code repository maintenance. Unfortunately, I was able to work with Dr. Shipman only for a short while, due to time constraints with school and my job.
	
	Even though I wasn't able to work full time for research, I did continue to participate in math activities. For the past five years, I have represented LSU at the regional Mathematical Association of America meetings. During that time, more and more LSU students became interested in math, so we began to meet informally every week. This year I took the steps necessary to make it an official club and became president. Now at our weekly meetings we invite professors and graduate students to give talks. I work with graduate students to help with their presentations, once giving a talk myself on numerical methods and linear programming. During my time here, I have accumulated many awards, including two consecutive years of first place at MAA.
	
	Unlike some of my classmates, I had to keep a job to support myself throughout college. This profoundly limited my study time and limited opportunities to work with professors. At least my job involved something that I enjoyed: software development. Also, working for a private business taught me things that no college can teach: things like meeting deadlines, managing time and money, and adapting quickly to get the job done. My job required that I not only had to propose solutions, but make sure they were free of bugs. I had to do this at every stage, from inception to completion.
	
	Luckily for me, my boss Adam Swann understood the difficulty of balancing school and work. He saw me go from a few minutes late to on time every day, from a day or two behind to a day or two ahead, from learning the ropes to training new employees. Although part of me wouldn't mind staying, I have known from the beginning that something was missing. 
	
	Two years ago, I took a graduate level seminar with Dr. Robert Lipton and I have had the opportunity to talk with him regularly. The course he taught was on partial differential equations, specifically hetergeneous materials. His insightful teaching opened up a window onto his field of study, material science. I was especially pleased to see how what we learned could be applied in a series of disciplines. I have come to realize that this kind of exploration is what I want to do in graduate school. What I was missing at work was a sense that I was part of something important, something bigger than just pleasing clients. In other words, graduate school.
	
	I see graduate school as a new and exciting challenge and the next step in my life. My background of computers and real life work enable me to bring to the math world a different outlook and experience than my peers. Consequently, I see solutions and methods that a more traditional math student might not be aware of. My objective is to use what I learn in graduate school to bring theory into application, whether in academia or elsewhere. I am very interested in what math can bring to other fields and I believe this to be the fastest way to improve all fields of science.